---
layout: post
title: Consumer Robots are Dead, Long Live DYI Robots!
date: 2019-06-23 00:00:00 -0800
---

In the span of a year, we have witnessed the death of major consumer robot companies.
What went wrong?
Guy Hoffman, a robotics expert, [provides a comprehensive summary](https://spectrum.ieee.org/anki-jibo-and-kuri-what-we-can-learn-from-social-robotics-failures) of possible reasons for the demise of the companies.
To me, the problem was over-promise and under-deliver.
I mean, just look at [this commercial](https://youtu.be/H0h20jRA5M0) and look at [a real robot](https://youtu.be/xmntMiJ5zKs).
But I also think that there is another problem that is rooted in our culture; when you hear the word "robot", what comes into your mind?
I think about C-3PO and R2-D2 from Star Wars, The Terminator, WALL-E, Sonny from I, Robot, and Marvin from The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, just to name a few.
Most of these robots are physically more capable than humans  and even emotionally as capable as humans[^1].
After seeing such robots over and over, we expect a robot to be a super awesome friend/servant (or killing machine), and see a commercial like [this](https://youtu.be/H0h20jRA5M0) and we get [this](https://youtu.be/xmntMiJ5zKs)[^2].

Of course not all consumer robots are dead.
We still have iRobot's Roomba and Amazon's Echo/Alexa--if you consider a voice-agent compatible smart speaker a robot.
But for some reason, they don't feel like a robot.
I nearly gave up on trying to define what a "robot" is and advocating for [not calling anything a "robot"](https://twitter.com/mjyc_/status/1300898349529182208).
But more recently, I started defining a robot as a physical device (or a set of devices) that is capable of complex sensing (e.g., computer vision), complex control (e.g., motion planning), and adaptation (e.g., machine learning).
For example, I wouldn't call industrial manipulators that pick things up from and place things in known locations but I would call a mobile rover that recognizes street signs and avoids pedestrians crossing a road a robot.

Okay, so where do we go from here?
Will we have a "robot" that we can buy and use at home? what will it look like? do?
Maybe a big tech will build [something](https://a.co/d/4gg8P7E) but I think the time is ripe for rolling our sleeves up and building home robots ourselves!
First, we need hardware.
We can buy a kit like a TurtleBot or get an open hardware design from one of the Hackaday blog posts--or design one from scratch on onshape, if you can.
Second, we'll need to add electronics.
We can buy a Raspberry Pi or a super fancy GPU or TPU board from [NVidia](https://developer.nvidia.com/embedded/jetson-nano) or [Google](https://coral.ai).
I can't work with microcontrollers but don't let me stop you if you can.
Finally, software.
There are ROS, Nvidia Isaac, Apex Autoware, etc.

What should we build?
That's a great question.
My approach is reviewing my hobbies and asking how can I use robotics capabilities to make them more interesting.
This usually boils down to adding capabilities like mobility, manipulability, or computer vision to existing things. I tried to build interactive or mobile decorations like interactive lights (e.g., changing ceiling light colors based on locations of detected people) and mobile pots (e.g., moving to different locations at different times).
Another approach is starting from the problem, e.g., by asking what problem can I solve with robotics capabilities?
This approach usually gets blocked by the current limitations of the robotics tech, but some people do come with clear solutions (e.g., limiting the scope of the problem, involving humans, etc.) to make progress.

All these ideas, however, probably aren't going to get you something practical or economical.
Although it's changing very quickly, as of today, robots are expensive and they are not very capable, esp., in a highly unstructured environment like home.
So why did I suggest building your own robot?
Because I just love to work on robots.
Why do you cook, do housework, or cut your own hair?
It may not be for everyone, but I have previous memories around it so if working on robotics could be an activity that brings people together to share moments and build memories, I'd like others to know about it.

[^1] I love fictions/movies like [Pluto](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pluto_(manga)) or [Her](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Her_(film)) that questions the meaning of "human" when robots can be as capable as humans.<br>
[^2] I keep picking on Jibo but I really wanted it to succeed and at this point, I think learning from its mistake is important for roboticists of tomorrow.
