---
published: false
---

<!-- These are ones that occurs frequently, but allows continued operation / delay or no let me the disruption Unreliable hardware failure software crash or unresponsive ui with backup/known recovery plan.
    Examples includes testing for robotics algorithm failures, which I considered to have medium value because robotics algorithm failures usually have fallback method.
    These are ones that occurs frequently, but allows continued operation / delay or no let me the disruption Unreliable hardware failure software crash or unresponsive ui with backup/known recovery plan. -->

<!-- Examples includes testing for unexpected peak load, rate hardware issues.
    robotics I read in failure with recovery strategy.  Unreliable  -->

First quadrant. These problems that needs to be covered immediately if there is no test exist already. Like, untested breaking api changes ~~unreliable hardware that frequently interrupts.~~ Often times, these scenarios occur because company moved fast, ie limited time to design well

~~How do you find them? You will hear about them for example from internal communication channels . Examples include robotics algorithm failure, unreliably hardware.~~

---

In robotics startups that builds complex systems in fast pace, there’s no way to create comprehensive test suit.
I use Mike Chung matrix to create high impact test cases in budgetted time.

I use Mike Chung matrix to create high impact test cases in budgetted time.

Given the complexity of robotics systems and myriad ways that they can fail, I use The Mike Chung Matrix[^TM] to create high-impact tests within (time) budget.
<!-- - prioritize which failure (scenario) to cover first. -->

---
---
---

<!-- ## What can we do about it? -->

Regardless of the abovementioned challenges, figuring out 

Many things can go wrong with robotics systems 

Due to the complexity of robotics systems--and hence myriad ways they can fail, it is difficult to figure out where to get started.
Whenever I start work on a new codebase, it isn't clear what test case to write first.
In such cases, use this matrix to prioritize the possible tasks.