---
layout: note
title: "Lessons Learned from Job Searching in 2023"
date: 2024-12-27 00:00:00 -0800
tags: ["#jobsearch"]
---

I was in the job market in 2023.
It was a tough year for finding a new potision due to many tech layoffs in 2022-2023.
I applied for senior software engineer position in various robotics and autonomous vehicles companies, focusing on applications and devtools engineer positions.
Here are the things I've learned.

## Basics

First things first:

* Don't lose your job. Especially if you are in a vulnerable position, e.g., you have a young family, you are an immigrant who requires a visa, or if your current job is difficult to get, e.g., a senior position in a big tech, remote position after COVID-19, etc.
* Don't apply for positions you want. Apply for positions that you feel like you can excel at or you have done many many times.
* Prepare appropriately for the level you are applying. Research the signals interviewers are expecting for each engineer level. Don't over or undershoot it.
* Choose what to include in your resume judiciously. Different wording can change the response rate. Your interview questions will depend on it.

## Interview Format

Typically, there were 4 rounds:

1. Recruiter
2. Hiring Manager
3. Screening Coding Interview
4. "On-site" Panel Interview

The "on-site" panel interview usually consists of the following:

1. Coding interview
2. Sofrware or system design interview
3. Domain knowledge interview
4. Behavior interview (sometimes skipped and replaced by one more 1. or 2.)

Work with recruiters to get ahead.
Talk to them to get a sense of kind of engineer the company or team is looking for, your competition, learn more about the panel interview like its format and  panelists' background.
Ask good questions to show your industry experience, i.e., let them know you are already one of them, early.

## Coding Interview

I felt like coding interviews became more conversational since the last time I was in the job market in 2020.
Coding interviews usually started with a brief problem description--sometimes even without an example inputs and outputs!--written in an online text editor.
After eliciting functional (and system) requirements and solving the problem successfully, there usually were some follow-up tasks (e.g., optimize for X, handle edge case Y, what if input size increases to Z).

* Study strategically, i.e., choose practice problems that are likely to occur in your next interview. For example, if you are applying for a motion planning engineer/simulation position, choose a coding problem involving graph/data stream, etc.
* Trick your mind to relax. Try to game the coding interview, or do whatever works for you to get positively engaged.
* Deliver a functionally correct solution in time. Being able to deliver a (clean and) correct solution under time pressure is difficult.
* Then go beyond. Demonstrate your (system) requirement elicitation/capacity estimation skills, show off your knowledge of language-specific features (iff makes sense), and present your real-world experience (e.g., by discussing practicalities, trade-offs, etc.) Be careful not to overdo this (i.e., don't go into a one-man show), by keep checking in with the interviewer to sense what they are looking for.

## Software and System Design Interview

The "on-site" interviews for a robotics (autonomy) position typically included at least one software design round, focusing on code organization (OOP) and functional correctness. System design interviews that focus more on distributed systems and scale were more popular among interviews for a devops or infra position. I found that the design interviews were the most difficult to prepare for. There were many great online resources for preparing design interviews but they were not directly applicable to my interviews.
* If you are familiar with typical robotics software/systems and their applications, try to create a set of problem and solution pairs that are likely to occur in your interview. Remember the heated design discussions from your previous organizations and check to see if architecture/patterns/trade-offs learned from the online resources are applicable to your practice problems.
* The high-level design process and interview strategies are often transferrable. Learn them online and try applying them when you practice.
* If possible, find a buddy to practice with, ideally, someone who has experience with conducting a design interview. Give them the problem and solution pairs you've come up with and ask them to conduct a design interview with those. Make sure to find a buddy who can conduct a mock interview well.
* I found using ChatGPT somewhat helpful. It wasn't great at coming up with practice problems but was good at brainstorming solutions, e.g., was useful for explaining a particular topic, discussing trade-offs, and solving well-defined problems. Don't get too sucked into interacting with ChatGPT.
* Review related, famous, and high-quality opensource projects. Review design docs, design discussions in issues. <!-- For example, when preparing for a simulation engineer position, I reviewed CARLA -->

## Domain Knowledge

I didn't have time to finish this section but one note: the format of domain knowledge interview varied a lot but deeply understanding your domain seemed to help the most. Go review fundamentals and basics.

## Behavioral

I didn't have time to finish this section but two notes:

* Many online resources offer guidance on behavioral interviews at big tech companies. Learn the format and strategies.
* Start preparing early, like at your current job by documenting (1) key leadership moments with context and (2) qualities of admired engineering and product managers. Organize these into a structured format and practice using the learned strategies.

## Links

- [ML Eng Interview Guide](http://patrickhalina.com/posts/ml-eng-interview-guide/) by [Patrick Halina](http://patrickhalina.com/)
- (shameless self-promotion) [Awesome Robotics System Design
](https://github.com/mjyc/awesome-robotics-system-design?tab=readme-ov-file#learning-resources) - Stuff I read to learn about robotics system & software design and more.
