---
layout: note
title: "git-issue: an offline-friendly project management tool with potential"
date: 2020-03-20 00:00:00 -0800
tags: ["#review", "#cli"]
---

### Background

Before COVID-19, I've been reviewing issues on a bus to work. My team used gitlab, so without a stable internet connection on a bus, I wasn't able to concentrate. I started look for an offline friendly issue management tool and narrowed the contenders to (i) [git-issue](https://github.com/dspinellis/git-issue) and (ii) [git-bug](https://github.com/MichaelMure/git-bug).

I decided to give a shot at [git-issue](https://github.com/dspinellis/git-issue) because I liked its simplicity. My first impression of git-issue was basically an issue manager powered by git. It provided command-line tools for basic issue management like creating, editing, removing, listing issues and comments and also had additional features like logging time estimates/spent and setting milestones.
It was written in shell script.

### The Pros and Cons List

After 2 weeks of using it here is my pros and cons list.

Pros:

- lightweight
- based on git
- supports interacting with github/gitlab

Cons:

- github/gitlab integration is buggy
- written in shell script so hard to read & debug the src code

### My Honest Opinion

My initial motivation was doing project management when I have don't have access to the internet, e.g., on a bus. I couldn't replace my existing workflow--I used to use [GitLab's issue board](https://about.gitlab.com/stages-devops-lifecycle/issueboard/)--because there were [tons of project management features GitLab provided](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/issues/) that I didn't realize I was dependent on. For example, I wanted

- customizable board view
- markdown preview
- issue number auto-completion the editing view

Also, I realized (i) connecting to the internet on a bus wasn't as hard via tethering and (ii) there are no severe consequences of editing issues concurrently (as in using a cloud tool). For coding (ii) is not true since doing so will likely crash your program.

I ended up mostly using git-issue when I know when exactly what to do, e.g., comment on a specific issue. While I still think it has a lot of potentials, for now, it has not replaced my goto tool, the gitlab issues/board pages on the browser.

### Misc.

- git-issue [helper scripts for fuzzy searching issues (and editing)](https://gist.github.com/mjyc/b33ea80309161328716e59f665dc595f)
